nifi-parent/README.md, before:

<!--
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
# Apache NiFi Parent

Apache NiFi Parent provides a nice aggregation of shared concerns for all NiFi Poms to follow

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [License](#license)
- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

## Getting Started

- Build the nifi-parent module.  Then you can go to the 'nifi-nar-maven-plugin' 
directory and follow its instructions and finally the 'nifi' directory.  Building
the nifi-parent and nifi-nar-maven-plugin should be rarely necessary as these 
will be released infrequently by comparison to the 'nifi' tree.

## Documentation

See http://nifi.incubator.apache.org/ for the latest documentation.

## License

Except as otherwise noted this software is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Disclaimer

Apache NiFi is an effort undergoing incubation at the Apache Software
Foundation (ASF), sponsored by the Apache Incubator PMC.

Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review
indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process
have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects.

While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness
or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be
fully endorsed by the ASF.

Commit message:

NIFI-558: Improvements to "Getting Started" instructions for first build.
* when we tell folks to go somewhere, give them a link
* make sure building of nifi-parent is called out
* provide guidance on when to build parent / nar-plugin
* include requirements before folks start trying to build
* make sure there are shell examples for deployment commands
* make sure shell commands work for copy-paste after this version (even if
  captured responses will have different output later).
* include a screenshot of what a correct build + deploy + launch looks like
  in browser.

Signed-off-by: Aldrin Piri <aldrinpiri@gmail.com>

nifi-parent/README.md, after:

<!--
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
# Apache NiFi Parent

Apache NiFi Parent provides a nice aggregation of shared concerns for all NiFi Poms to follow

## Table of Contents

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [License](#license)
- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

## Requirements
* JDK 1.7 or higher
* Apache Maven 3.0.5 or higher

## Getting Started

Building the nifi-parent module should be rare since it will be released infrequently compared to
the main 'nifi' code tree.

- Build the nifi-parent module using `mvn clean install`.
- Presuming you need to make use of changes to the nifi-parent module, you should next
  go to the [nifi-nar-maven-plugin](../nifi-nar-maven-plugin) directory and follow its instructions
  and finally the [nifi](../nifi) directory. 

## Documentation

See http://nifi.incubator.apache.org/ for the latest documentation.

## License

Except as otherwise noted this software is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Disclaimer

Apache NiFi is an effort undergoing incubation at the Apache Software
Foundation (ASF), sponsored by the Apache Incubator PMC.

Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review
indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process
have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects.

While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness
or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be
fully endorsed by the ASF.
