nifi-nar-maven-plugin/README.md, before:

<!--
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
# Apache NiFi NAR Maven Plugin

Apache NiFi NAR Maven Plugin helps to build NiFi Archive bundles to support the classloader isolation model of NiFi.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Getting Help](#getting-help)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [License](#license)
- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

## Getting Started

To Build:
- Executed 'mvn clean install'

## Getting Help
If you have questions, you can reach out to our mailing list: dev@nifi.incubator.apache.org
([archive](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-nifi-dev)).
We're also often available in IRC: #nifi on
[irc.freenode.net](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#nifi).


## Requirements
* JDK 1.7 or higher

## License

Except as otherwise noted this software is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Disclaimer

Apache NiFi is an effort undergoing incubation at the Apache Software
Foundation (ASF), sponsored by the Apache Incubator PMC.

Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review
indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process
have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects.

While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness
or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be
fully endorsed by the ASF.

Commit message:

NIFI-558: Improvements to "Getting Started" instructions for first build.
* when we tell folks to go somewhere, give them a link
* make sure building of nifi-parent is called out
* provide guidance on when to build parent / nar-plugin
* include requirements before folks start trying to build
* make sure there are shell examples for deployment commands
* make sure shell commands work for copy-paste after this version (even if
  captured responses will have different output later).
* include a screenshot of what a correct build + deploy + launch looks like
  in browser.

Signed-off-by: Aldrin Piri <aldrinpiri@gmail.com>

nifi-nar-maven-plugin/README.md, after:

<!--
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
# Apache NiFi NAR Maven Plugin

Apache NiFi NAR Maven Plugin helps to build NiFi Archive bundles to support the classloader isolation model of NiFi.

## Table of Contents

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Getting Help](#getting-help)
- [License](#license)
- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)

## Requirements
* JDK 1.7 or higher
* Apache Maven 3.0.5 or higher

## Getting Started

Building the nifi-nar-maven-plugin module should be rare since it will be released infrequently compared to
the main 'nifi' code tree.

- Build with `mvn clean install`
- Presuming you need to make use of changes to the nifi-nar-maven-plugin module, you should next
  go to the [nifi](../nifi) directory and follow its instructions. 


## Getting Help
If you have questions, you can reach out to our mailing list: dev@nifi.incubator.apache.org
([archive](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-nifi-dev)).
We're also often available in IRC: #nifi on
[irc.freenode.net](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#nifi).


## License

Except as otherwise noted this software is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Disclaimer

Apache NiFi is an effort undergoing incubation at the Apache Software
Foundation (ASF), sponsored by the Apache Incubator PMC.

Incubation is required of all newly accepted projects until a further review
indicates that the infrastructure, communications, and decision making process
have stabilized in a manner consistent with other successful ASF projects.

While incubation status is not necessarily a reflection of the completeness
or stability of the code, it does indicate that the project has yet to be
fully endorsed by the ASF.
